Hey, and welcome back.
Hopefully, you had a second to prepare for this video.
Here, we'll get started creating your first Hello World Express application.
Back on expressjs.com, go to Getting Started,
Installing, and you'll see details about how to install this on your computer.
To avoid just talking through all the documentation,
I thought it might help to immediately put this to use.
Let's do that now and install Express to create our first project.
If you get lost, remember that I'm just following this documentation here.
I didn't want to walk through it.
In case you get stuck,
this video might be able to help you get past a couple of the problems you have.
To start, open your terminal and navigate to wherever you want your project to be.
I'll put mine on my Desktop.
Now, make a folder using mkdir.
Call this folder whatever you like.
I'll stick with myapp.
There it is. Now, navigate into the folder from the terminal using cd My App.
Once in the folder,
use npm init to create a package.json file.
What comes up here is a bunch of things you can assign in the file.
You can always change this later if you want,
and it's fine to accept the defaults for now.
To accept the default,
just keep hitting enter a bunch of times until you've gotten through all the prompts.
The last thing it does is ask, "Is this okay?"
Right above that, it shows you everything it's about to put in the file.
Hit enter one more time and you just created your package.json file.
Let's check it out. Great, just like I expected.
Next, I'll create the JavaScript file that we'll use for our hello world example.
Using touch, I can create this file.
I'll call it index.js.
Finally, I'll type npm install express --save.
This installs Express and saves it as
a dependency into the package.json file we just created.
After a few seconds,
the framework will install and we're ready to open up our project.
To do that, I'll open up the folder in my code editor.
Over on the left, you'll see all the files we just created.
Index.js, package.json and a folder which contains all the modules that Express installed.
There's a lot of functionality here.
We won't go over all of them now,
but if you're interested in learning more,
you can do that back on the website resources.
Under Resources Middleware, you'll see
all these modules with links to more information to explore.
For now, what we'll do instead is try the Hello World example.
To get there, go back to getting started and click Hello World.
Take this code and paste it directly into your index.js file.
Now, save this file.
We can run this now to get our application started and afterwards,
I'll describe a little bit about what's going on.
To run this file, go back to your terminal and type node
index.js or whatever you named your JavaScript file.
Now, it should say, "Example app listening on port 3000," which is great.
That means we can check this out on the browser now to see our Hello World application.
To do that, open your browser and type localhost:3000.
If it says Hello World,
then you're all set and you just created your first Express web application.
If you got this far, congratulations!
We'll take another quick break here.
I put an overview of the steps we just went through down below the video.
Once you're ready, come see the next video where I'll
walk through a bit about what the code is actually doing.